Previously, we covered some of the questions you can ask to
decide if a blockchain is the right solution for your application.
Once deciding to use a blockchain,
it's important to know how the data is constructed so that you can use it effectively.
In this video, we'll explore some of this data and investigate the structure of a block.
Blocks contain two main sections that each hold important data.
The first section is the block header.
The block header contains metadata about the block including
things like the hash value which allows to connect blocks into a chain.
The second section is the body of the block.
The body contains all of the blocks transaction information.
We can investigate this data using a few different tools.
To start, we'll take a closer look at this data using an online block explorer.
Later on, we'll be doing this type of stuff programmatically.
We're starting with this website so you can focus on the contents of
the block rather than worrying about getting set up with your programming environment.
If you'd like to follow along,
you can go to the website block
explorer.com or follow the link we've provided in the notes below.
All right, let's get started.
Let's begin by going to a specific block.
You can do that by typing a block number over here in the top left.
For this example, I'll use block 520607.
But feel free to use whichever block you like.
After Choosing a block,
you'll see the block header.
There's information here like the hash,
height, timestamp in previous block.
If you click on the previous or next block,
the site will load information for whatever details are included for that block.
Now, let's take a look at the block transaction data.
You can scroll down to the bottom of the page to see each of the blocks transactions.
This information makes up the bulk of the blocks data.
They're listed in order as they were verified on the network.
At the top is the first transaction and
way down at the bottom is the most recent transaction.
This first transaction is known as the coinbase.
There's not really anything special about it,
it's just the term used for the first transaction.
Scrolling through to see some other transactions,
you'll notice that each of them contains certain details.
On the left is the transaction inputs and over on the right is the transaction outputs.
Down at the bottom is the fee,
the number of conformations,
and the amounts sent.
Let's look at this transaction.
After clicking on the hash value,
you'll see some of the summary data about the transaction
followed by the details of the transaction inputs and outputs.
These are the same details that were provided on the main page.
This is telling us that these two inputs were added together giving us these outputs.
The top one is how much we sent and the bottom
one is how much change was given back to the sender.
You can also see that to make this transaction,
the miner collected this much as a fee.
There are this many confirmations and
this was the original amount of Bitcoin that was sent.
That's the basics of how to get started with this online block explorer.
Using this, you can continue to explore block data and transactions.
This will help you get more familiar with how the ideas behind how
a block works actually translates into real-world data